ESN-Committee meeting
Wednesday 16th of April 2003 at 6.00 pm
New Student House meeting room Aurora

Present: Outi Leskelä (chair), Martin Fluch, Nelli Hankonen, Ilkka Hannula, 
Elina Hölttä, Johanna Järvinen, Ida Kåll, Hanniina Manner, Riikka Pahkala, 
Giacomo Todaro, Heini Ynnilä, Linda Degerth (secretary)

1. Opening of the meeting
   The meeting was declared open at 6.05 pm

2. Approving the agenda
   The agenda was approved

3. Past, present and future events
   -Anna's trip to St. Petersburg went well
   -The guided tour to the Botanical garden (4th of April) went fine
   -The cooking courses (5th and 6th of April) were popular
   -The guided tour to the Parliament (15th of April) was good, even though
    it got cancelled at one point because they chose the prime minister.
   -The guided tour to Finlandia and the National Museum was nice. 12 
    people came, 4 people who had signed up didn't come. The cost of the
    guides was 40 euros more than what we got from the participating fees,
    and ESN will pay for it.

   -There are 38 people signed up for the day trip to Nuuksio (21st of 
    April), and the same amount for the overnight trip. The overnight trip
    (17th-18th of May) is full.
   -There are 28 people signed up for the trip to Porvoo (22nd of April).
    The trip will be from 12 to 8 pm and there's a guide, and there is 
    probably going to be a visit to the archipelago and the Brunberg candy
    shop.
   -There are 19 people coming to the sitz party (24th of April). Pasi is
    in Norway and can't be a toastmaster. If you have music that you can 
    bring, you can inform Johanna about it.
   -ESN will celebrate Vappu again (30th of April). There will be a meeting
    at 5 pm in front of Porthania. We'll take the ESN flag with us, and go
    and see when Havis Amanda gets her student cap. On the 1st of May there
    will be a picnic in Kaivopuisto. There will be meetings in front of
    Kaivohuone at certain times, from where someone will take people to our
    picnic place. Outi, Heini, Riikka, Johanna and Linda will be there.
   -There are 2 complete teams in the football tournament, and possibly two
    more teams. There will be a meeting with the captains of the teams, so 
    that everybody will know the rules. This will take place before the 
    first match.
   -The cityrally will take place on the 8th of May from 2 to 5 pm. The 
    cityrally was planned on the 15th of April.
   -The Bye-Bye party (8th of May, too) will feature punch, some program 
    and questionnaires.
   -There's a brunch for some of HYY:s committee on the 9th of May in Café 
    Ekberg. 2 people from ESN will go (Outi and someone else)
   -There will be a sauna evening with TKK on the 21st of May
   -There will be a picnic for ESN actives on the 8th of June at noon.

   -There won't be another guided tour to the parliament, because there are
    no free times there anymore
   -There will maybe be a trip to Hanko (or some small towns west of 
    Helsinki) in May

4. AGM 2004 News

   -Kirsi and Riikka are the AGM project secretaries!
   -There might be a problem getting the Socrates money for AGM, because 
    they don't give it easily to students.
   -There were some complaints about the AGM 2003, and some Italian and all
    Spanish ESN sections have requested an extraordinary meeting. They 
    claim that there have been some decisions against the rules and that 
    the old board has behaved badly. All ESN sections have been asked to 
    comment these complaints. ESN Helsinki discusses this issue on the 
    bulletin board.

5. International Tutoring & Buddy Project

   -Minttu is the International Tutoring & Buddy Project secretary! She'll 
    meet Jussi and others soon. Minna could also tell about her 
    experiences. The date for the initiation of the Buddy project was 
    preliminarily set to the 13th of September, and Alina should be 
    reserved now and people could be informed on time. The cityrally will 
    be arranged in association with the buddy project initiation. All ideas
    about the buddy project can be sent to Minttu.

6. Photos in the ESN www-pages

    Martin doesn't have time to update the photo pages, unless the photo 
    pages are completely ready and Martin only has to upload them. Minttu, 
    Johanna and Giacomo will take the responsibility for the pages. There 
    will be a meeting where Outi also will attend, because she has sent 
    lots of photos to Martin and she knows where they're from. We'll see 
    if there's some more automatic way to update the photo pages.

7. Bulletin Board

    Only one thing has to be changed before the opening of the Bulletin 
    Board: it was decided to remove the "News"-title because its function
    is unclear and probably unnecessary.

8. Miscellaneous
   -Outi had got an e-mail from an ESN-section in Poland. They were 
    interested in organizing a "Flying conference" with an ESN section in
    Ucraine, one in Hungary and with ESN Helsinki. This conference would
    be about the extension of the EU and some problems related to that. We 
    decided not to do this, because we'll be busy with the AGM next year.
    The e-mail will be forwarded to the esn-sf-list so that other Finnish 
    ESN sections can do it instead of us.
   -Someone asked about the translation of the environmental guide. We'll
    ask Kirsi about it.
   -Riikka has tried to call the owner of Wave and asked if we can have a 
    special pub night on the 13th of May. She couldn't reach him, so she 
    left a message on his answering machine. 
   -There will be a meeting for people responsible of international affairs
    in student organizations on the 7th of May

9. Next meetings

   -Next meeting will be held on Tuesday, 29th of April at 6 pm in Floora.
    Jussi Tanner will be there and tell us about his job!
   -The meeting after that will be held on the 14th of May at 6 pm in     
    Floora. This is the last ESN meeting this spring!

10. Closing the meeting
    The meeting was closed at 7.29 pm
