ESN-committee meeting
Tuesday 29th of April 2003 at 6.00 pm
New Student House meeting room Flora

Present: Outi Leskelä (chair), Martin Fluch, Nelli Hankonen, 
Elina Hölttä, Niina Juuti, Kirsi Korhonen, Ida Kåll, Miguel Silva, Jussi 
Tanner, Minttu Tikka, Tytti Voutilainen, Heini Ynnilä, Linda Degerth 
(secretary)

1. Opening of the meeting
   The meeting was declared open at 6.07 pm

2. Approving the agenda
   The agenda was approved

3. Jussi talks

   Jussi Tanner told us about his work as the secretary for international 
   affairs at the Student Union of the University of Helsinki. It is a 
   fulltime job and a two-year project. The work of the secretary for 
   international affairs consists of mainly of lobbying and counselling.
   Lobbying is needed for all kinds of matters that concern foreign
   students, such as courses at the university, immigrant laws etc. 
   The secretary also ensures that the ESN committee have the 
   resources they need for their activities. The counselling is for foreign 
   students who are in a difficult situation, such as if it seems that an 
   employer does not respect laws and the foreign student does not know if 
   it's ok or not, or if there is racism etc.

   The work of the secretary has changed lately since there are more and
   more degree students coming to Finland. The university itself does not 
   have enough means to help foreign students, and that's why the Student 
   Union has to do something. For example, the international tutoring has 
   been suffering lately, but now the Student Union and the university have 
   hired a project secretary together to improve the activity.
   Jussi's work is a lot about planning. When something is done in
   practice, there is often a project secretary hired.

   ESN would also be interested in affecting the situation of the foreign 
   students at the university, and it was suggested that there would be a 
   brainstorming-meeting and that ESN could have something to say about who 
   is the next secretary for international affairs, also when different 
   project secretaries are chosen.

4. Activities for the spring
  -Vappu: There will be a meeting at 5 pm in front of Porthania. From
   there we'll go and see how Manta gets her student cap. On the 1st of May
   we'll have a picnic in Kaivopuisto from 9 am to 3 pm. Outi needs some
   help to carry the things, and people who want to help her can come to
   the new student house at 8:30 am.
  -There will be a meeting for the football people on the 2nd of May at
   6 pm in Flora. There have been some problems with the reservation of the 
   fields
  -Trip to western Uusimaa on the 5th of May at 9 am-6 pm. Places to be 
   visited are the church in Lohja, the castle in Mustio, Tammisaari, 
   Raasepori and Fagervik. 45 people can come, 13 have signed up so far.
  -Scavenger hunt on the 8th of May from 1pm to 4pm. Bye-bye party in the 
   evening.
  -There will be a sauna eventing together with TKK on the 21st of May. 
   There will come some people from there to the next ESN committee meeting.
  -ESN picnic on the 8th of June. Time is to be decided later.

  -The first trip to Nuuksio (21st of April) went well, even though there
   were 45 people. The second trip is completely full and there are people
   in the waiting list.
  -35 people went to Porvoo (22nd of April), everything went fine
  -Floorball on the 15th of April was nice; 15 people came

  -Alina has been reserved on the 13th of September for the Buddy Project
   opening and the 30th of October for the ESN day

5. Questionnaire and the brochures
  -the questionnaire will mainly remain the same, but there will be a 
   short introduction to it, some questions will be removed and others 
   added.
  -there will be a couple of changes to the brochures, and they will be
   put on the bulletin board

6. ESN working day (talkoot)
  -there will be "talkoot" on the 12th of May from 10 am onwards. The 
   closet will be cleaned, the notice board for Porthania will be fixed. 
   The people who help at the talkoot will get some pizza.


7. Miscellaneous
  -Nordic Network Meeting will be held in Norway in October or November. 
   Outi suggested that ESN could rent Jukka's bus and go there, eventually 
   with some foreign students as well. The idea was thought to be good.
  -There will be a cottage weekend in summer. Minttu can fix the cottage 
   if someone else gets a car.

8. Next meeting
  -The next meeting will be held on the 14th of May at 6 pm in Flora

10. Closing the meeting
    The meeting was closed at 7.52 pm
