ESN-committee meeting
Tuesday 9th of September 2003 at 6.00 pm
New Student House meeting room Aurora

Present: Johanna Järvinen (chair), Mira Granqvist, Tiina Huotari, Reita 
Johansson, Niina Juuti, Riikka Jäske, Elsi Koho, Kirsi Korhonen, Päivi 
Korhonen, Outi Leskelä, Milja Mustonen, Satu Raitala, Terhi Rasilo, Miguel 
Silva, Ville Sinkkonen, Minttu Tikka, Rami Tolvanen, Tytti Voutilainen, 
Anna Vuorivirta, Heini Ynnilä, Linda Degerth (secretary)

1. Opening of the meeting

The meeting was opened at 6.09 pm


2. Approving the agenda

The agenda was approved


3. Past, present and future events

-Welcome Party (September 5th): Everything went well despite some technical 
problems in the beginning with the music and the lights. The guards of HYY 
had said that we had a good organization of the party!
-Help Desk: Opened today (September 9th), Minttu has brought some boxes 
with material from the city of Helsinki
-Baseball: Outi and Riikka J. are going to play Finnish baseball this 
Friday (September 12th). Outi will send an e-mail to the fs-list.
-Pub evenings will be held on Thursdays from now on. People get in for free 
between 8 and 9 pm only with the ESN-card, but guards will be flexible on 
the first pub night (September 11th). Beer & Cider costs 2,5 euros with the 
ESN-card.
-Guided tour to the backstage of the opera (October 10th at 2.30 pm): Outi 
will arrange this one, and there's room for 25 people (+25 if it is very 
popular). The cost will be 3,20 euros/person.
-Valborg: The Scouts' ship Valborg has been reserved for one day in October 
for an evening sailing trip. Outi will check the price and see if it's 
worth keeping the reservation. A limit for how much people are willing to 
pay for a few hours on the ship was set to around 10 euros.
-A movie night is going to be arranged some day. Giuseppe has one Finnish 
movie on DVD (Leijat Helsingin yllä), others suggested were Poika ja ilves, 
Kuutamolla, some war movie (Carelia), Kivenpyörittäjän kylä.
-ESN HYY will be 10 years old this year! A party will be held on the ESN 
day (October 30th). Some talks could be given, and former ESN-actives 
invited to the party.
-Trips to Nuuksio will be arranged on September 28th or October 12th or 
both, depending on the demand and the amount of free time Linda has.
-Markus Laitinen, who is the head of the international services at the 
university, is interested in coming to a meeting and talk about the 
international strategy of the university. There is a plan for 3 years, and 
one main topic is to try to get more foreign students to the University of 
Helsinki, but also send more Finnish students abroad.
-Johanna Hautakorpi from SYL (the National Union of Students in Finland) is 
also interested in talking about international strategies
-The city of Helsinki has offered to arrange a couple of nature trips for 
foreign students for free! The trips would be to Harakka or Viikki, or 
both. In case the people at the international services do not want to take 
care of the rest of the arranging, Kirsi, Heini and Tytti can fix it.
-The ESN pre-Christmas party will be held on Tuesday, December 2nd, in Alina
-Ville will arrange some downhill skiing when there's snow...
-The sports responsibles will go to Esport Night


4. The budget of the board for the year 2003

There have been some problems with the budget of ESN HYY, as discussed in 
the previous meeting. The meeting and general expenses were far above the 
limit (143% of the budget). Some minor things were adjusted, such as the 
Help Desk lunch vouchers were put to the right category (ESN Help Desk), 
and the water boiler that was broken was put to operational reserve. Ida's 
AGM costs will be taken from HYY's budget. But the most important reason 
for the huge amount of money used was the phone bill. ESN and Kehy-
committee share the phone bill, and we had got a phone bill of 600 euros! 
This is not fair in our opinion, since we haven't been using the telephone 
very much. Kirsi and Riikka have only called a couple of calls abroad, the 
rest of the calls have been within the country. Since we think it is unfair 
to receive a bill of 600 euros, we demand that HYY orders the phone 
specification and find out who has been making those phone calls.


5. Help Desk

The Help Desk started today (September 9th), and there are still some times 
that nobody has signed up for. There will be a book where people can write 
questions that they have not known the answer to.


6. University Opening carnival, September 10th

Johanna and Elsi will go to the Opening carnival at 11 am, even though the 
carnival officially starts at 2.30 pm. General hanging around is 
recommended. ESN-badges will be sold for 3 euros, and there will be ESN-
flyers and Buddy Project forms available.


7. NNM Bergen 2-5.10 and NatPlat

Johanna wrote a letter to HYY, telling that preferrably two people could 
attend the NNM. Johanna has reserved the tickets for 2 people. At least 
Johanna will attend, but it has been unclear who would be the other person. 
Since Martin will not be able to come to any meeting during the fall, it 
was suggested that someone else could go instead. Linda was willing to do 
that and the decision was supported by the people present at the meeting.

The NatPlat will be held in Joensuu the last weekend of September. 100 
euros is budgeted for it, and it cannot be exceeded. There is no 
participant fee in the NatPlat, so the 100 euros will be used for trips 
there, and divided between the people who will attend. Minttu and Kirsi 
were interested in going.


8. AGM 2004 News

The planning of AGM 2004 is going well. The webpages are almost ready, the 
only thing that is missing is Kirsi's proofreading and the international 
board's approval. Kirsi and Riikka have been interviewed for InCommon 
(www.incommon.info) about arranging the AGM. HYY did not give money for 
Kirsi and Riikka to attend the Central Europe Platform, but Cimo will 
sponsor them. Cimo will also be added to the sponsors page of the AGM 2004 
webpages. It is still unclear if Kirsi and Riikka can attend the NNM in 
Bergen.


9. Buddy Project + City Rally

Rami and Mira are arranging this one. There are still a couple of people 
needed for arranging the city rally, and the party in the evening.


10. E-mail lists and Bulletin Board

It has been discussed whether the fs-chat-list should be removed and the 
Bulletin Board should be opened for the public. For this to happen, it 
would have been necessary to promote the Bulletin Board at the Orientation 
Course, but this was not done. Therefore we decided that we will let the fs-
chat-list and the Bulletin Board live side by side, and check the 
popularity of both. The link to the Bulletin Board can also be added to the 
ESN webpage.


11. Language courses in Kielikeskus (language centre)

The former chancellor of the university decided that exchange students 
cannot take part in language courses arranged by Kielikeskus. We understand 
that they cannot take part in English courses due to economical reasons, 
since they are supposed to know English when they arrive in Finland. 
Anyway, we think it is unfair that exchange students cannot participate in 
courses of other languages during their stay here. It is also against the 
Erasmus agreement and the equality standards to prohibit people from taking 
part in courses. Another problem are the courses in Finnish (arranged by 
the department of Finnish), which are always really popular and many 
people, also degree students who are obliged to study Finnish, do not get a 
place on these courses. We will have to do something about this, and it 
will probably happen through HYY. Johanna will write an appeal together 
with someone else (Ida, Elsi?).


12. Miscellaneous

-Linda sometimes has problems (due to a lab course) in getting on time to 
the New Student House to get the Stockmann card in order to buy food for 
the meetings. Elsi or Johanna will buy the food those days Linda cannot.
-Hanni, one of the responsibles for sports, is in Koli for the autumn term. 
ESN-people can visit her if they want to, at least some people are going 
there on September 19th-21st. It is also possible to visit her later in the 
autumn.
-A new responsible for sports was chosen: Reita Johansson
-the evening for new students has been renewed. It is now wished that there 
would be some program and activities instead of just stands. Ideas of what 
ESN could have there are warmly welcomed.


13. Next meetings

Next mmeting will be held on September 23rd at 6 pm in Aurora. The meeting 
after that will be held on October 9th at 6 pm


14. Closing the meeting

The meeting was closed at 8.16 pm
