Adjudication guidelines from the debaters perspective

Amended from the American Parliamentary Debate Association rules.

The goal of competitive debate is to persuade. The object of that persuasion is the adjudicator (or judge). The adjudicator is the ultimate arbiter of the round and his/her decision is final. Some tournaments will have panels of three or more adjudicators in some rounds; in such a case, adjudicators usually do not confer on their decisions and the team capturing the majority of ballots is declared the winner. In most cases, however, there will be a single adjudicator, who will also serve as the Speaker of the House.


Judging Criteria

The basic judging criterion for parliamentary debate is simple: persuasiveness. Unlike in some other forms of debate, a team will not automatically win a round due to their opponents "dropping an argument" or similar categorical criteria. Rather, the adjudicator is instructed to award the round to the team that, in his opinion, did the better debating - whose presentations and arguments he found most persuasive. While this is necessarily a broad and ambiguous criterion, there are a few particular areas that will be taken into account by almost every adjudicator:

Argumentation and Analysis. This is the backbone of parliamentary debate. A team that presents coherent, logical analysis will fare better than a team that relies (solely) on assertion and emotionalism. Arguments should be clear, convincing and provide a clash with the other team's values.

Content. While parliamentary debate is not based primarily on evidence or statistics, real-life examples and factual knowledge used to bolster your position will always help. While facts should not be used as a crutch that eliminates the need for analysis, they can provide an important way of anchoring and reinforcing abstract argumentation.

Refutation. Don't simply present your side of the issue - make sure that you confront your opponent's arguments head-on and beat them. Again, a single dropped argument will not automatically lose you the round (unless it is a key argument!), but a convincing refutation of most of your opponent's points will be necessary to carry out the round.

Organisation. Adjudicators appreciate a speech whose arguments are clearly and carefully mapped out. Through sign posting and other techniques, different lines of argument should be distinctly presented. Rebuttals should concisely and powerfully distil the most important issues of the round, and should not get bogged down in unnecessary details.

Style and rhetoric. The manner in which arguments are presented is almost as important as the arguments themselves. A smooth, polished and confident speaking style will impress adjudicators. Using rhetorical techniques and flourishes to add flair to a speech will add impact to your presentation.

Wit. Humour is an important part of a parliamentary debate and its use can add interest and impact to a speech. Wit, appropriate sarcasm, and funny examples and anecdotes will be appreciated by most adjudicators; inappropriate jokes, pure ad hominem insults mere stand-up comedy generally won't.

Points of Information. A debater who used Points of Information well will be at an advantage in the round. Both by raising powerful or witty points, and by quickly, confidently and effectively responding to points offered by the other team, you can demonstrate your ability to think on your feet - a quality respected by almost every adjudicator.

Teamwork. Debaters are expected to perform as a team, reinforcing each other's arguments and carry a coherent team philosophy throughout the round. Don't contradict your partner - rather expand on arguments previously made to complement the efforts of your team-mate.
